So, I actually wanna take just
a moment for us here and for
those of you who are online.
To just for you to sketch out,
you can do this on a piece of paper,
in a spreadsheet or
however you feel comfortable doing it.
But identify for
me where is your maturity level, so
far based on what I've shared with you,
and what origin story path have you taken?
So you can sketch out something like this,
just these little eight boxes will be
enough for you to kinda sketch that.
We can take just a moment, but if anybody
here wants to share and they can see it
and they know pretty well, if you can
just call it out I'd love to hear.
>> Story that you told where you
are grassroots until stage 2 and
then you have all of this budget.
I feel we're just on the cusp of
executive leaders understanding
the importance of this.
>> Yeah.
>> Where they're gonna
start throw a whole bunch of money at it.
Maybe it's a good thing,
maybe it's a bad thing.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Yeah,
that was a scary reality to see that, cuz
that's exactly where we stand right now
>> Yeah, that's actually really exciting.
I mean,
that's a huge potential in that situation.
So, that means you probably
have built something so
far that's actually really valuable,
right?
>> And then it all comes down
to the accessibility part.
I think there's a very large push to
make sure that we're ADA compliant.
>> Yeah.
>> So
seeing some of the very core elements
that we're putting together and
actually walking through
with the executive leaders.
How a screen reader would interact
with this particular input,
has made them realize
the importance of what we're doing.
>> I love that because I feel a lot of the
work that I do in consulting is helping
my clients, so
that might be a design system lead.
In a coaching scenario,
identify what are the things that
specific leaders care about.
And we try to understand then how we can
sorta formulate a version of a story of
the system that tells it in a way
that shows that benefit, right?
So in that case,
if you've got leaders who,
they know they're afraid of that lawsuit
coming in because of accessibility,
it's very simple to tell that
story with the design system.
I have others where, I'm actually doing
some work right now around sustainability.
So how do we create products that
do a better job managing carbon and
our impact on the environment?
Well, there's lots of ways to do that, and
if you are willing to kinda do
the work at the systematic level.
You can spread all of that really
good sustainable design and
development practice across the
organization much faster than trying to
educate all those teams independently.
So lots of stories that can be told to
help create that interest from leadership.
Anyone else wanna share sorta where
they were and their journey a little?
>> Yeah, I'd say we're a company of 18, so
everything feels grassroots and top down.
>> [LAUGH]
>> I'd put us in the stage 1, halfway.
>> Yeah, okay.
Yeah, totally cool.
And I think especially in
smaller organizations,
the lines between those things
are definitely compressed, right?
For sure, so yeah, you guys?
>> We're definitely top down and I think
this is a common probably pattern for
a lot of lager organizations.
It comes down either through
engineering or through design.
>> Yes.
>> Typically through design,
although not exclusively.
>> Yeah.
>> And that raises really interesting
challenges, cuz the bias
then becomes on design and
often operates a little bit too
independent of engineering insight.
And yeah, we're kinda I think
somewhere between stage 2 and stage 3.
I think we have all [LAUGH] the challenges
of stage 3, and we're still in stage 2.
>> Yeah.
>> It's, very much feels
like teenage years [LAUGH].
>> Yeah, I get that.
And we're gonna talk a little
bit later about what
I call the teeter totter maturity.
Which is where we move between 2 and
3, back and forth and back and forth.
And I'll try to kinda give you some
ideas on ways to prevent that.
It's really common,
I have worked with teams who have spent
years struggling between those two stages.
And there's a few things you have to get
right in order to move to stage 3 really
solidly, so,
maybe some of that would be helpful.
Okay, so the next thing I actually
wanna have you to do, is also just for
you in your heads at this moment.
But I want you to think about,
one or two things that you think
you have to do in order to move
into the next stage of maturity.
So just take a moment and
jot those ideas down.
So while you're doing that, I'll also
just say, if there's questions about so,
I've given you a very,
very high level of the maturity stages.
We're gonna deep dive into each
of those in a few moments, but,
are there questions about those stages or
questions about the origin story concept?
Anything that we can address here
before we move into the framework for
how to mature?
>> Could you give some examples,
you talked about how it happens
from the grassroots and
then getting some support-
>> Yeah.
>> From the top, and then that,
what about the opposite of that?
>> Yeah.
>> What would you recommend or
things you've seen around
maybe the inverse of that?
>> Yeah,
getting buy-in from subscribers, right?
So, I love just the idea that
the goal of your system should be,
if you want to move through Stage 2.
One of the things you gotta do is build
something people can't imagine doing their
jobs without, right?
That's the value side of it.
So, the way you get to that is you,
gonna depend on culture again.
So we'll touch on some of this later,
all these things kinda intersect.
But in general, what you have to do
is engage with those subscribers.
You need to be building
relationships with those folks,
you need to understand the real
problems they're facing.
I actually love the idea of just,
if you're in the Ux space,
you've probably done some
observation of users, right?
I think that's incredibly powerful and
really underrated and design system work.
If you're on a systems team and
you wanna understand what
problems you can help a user or
subscriber consumer solve.
Get some time to just observe them doing
their job for a couple of days, right?
You're gonna learn so much about the way
that they work, what problems they're
facing, even just in their workflows that
you can probably address with the system.
And that's how you're doing
the work to understand,
what are the real
problems they're solving?
Instead of the system being something
that actually takes more work for
them to use, right?
We're also gonna spend some time
talking about adoption journeys for
your subscribers, so
there's a couple models there.
And so that will definitely, we're gonna
touch on three specific things about
setting expectations a little better,
about making it easy for them,
that kinda stuff.
So, we're gonna get to that for
sure, if I don't cover more specifically
what you need, just re-ask, okay?
Awesome.
>> Just a comment from chat.
>> Yeah.
>> My team has top down stage 1,
big reads design.
Started by an agency and
now being pushed at the same time
as a new corporate site Leo.
>> Okay, yeah, it's interesting having
a third party involved too, right?
Having somebody from the outside
coming in to do the work.
I mean, that's the work that I do,
[LAUGH] all right?
But I'm also wary of it a little bit,
because Design System is
something that has to be.
It almost is like it's part of
the fabric of the organization,
more than a product, right?
And this is why I don't like the idea of
thinking about a system only as a product.
I think it has to be bigger than that, it
has to sorta have roots in other parts of
the organization,
has to be that full program inside.
Having a third party come in to help,
I think can be good, but they have to
take the approach of understanding
that they're collaborating with you,
not delivering something to you.
So if they can truly partner with you,
if they can kinda get into the weeds, and
you can do the work together.
It's actually a really good way
to get some outside perspective,
maybe some experience
from other engagements.
But to also move you faster
toward a healthy maturity, but
they've got to understand that
they can't just walk away [LAUGH].
Cuz that, and we're gonna talk
about one of the risks for
really mature systems that are wholly
dependent on individual expertise and
not taking away to systematize
that maturity too.
So that's a common risk I could
say with a third party, but
hopefully that went well and you feel
good about the material they gave you.
Okay.
>> Another comment.
>> Okay, yeah, go.
>> A design system feels very personal,
like clothing.
Someone else can't wear it and
tell you it fits, you need to wear it and
work with it.
>> Yeah, that's true.
I think that I love that analogy, I've
never thought quite about it in that way,
but that's cool.
But also there's ways to get,
custom tailor-made suits, and
you can't really do that on your own,
right?
So I think that analogy may be
stretches into a way where it's,
do I want this thing to really fit?
I need to either do the work to have that
expertise in house to understand how to
make it really fit what we need.
Or I need to figure out, attending events
like this or finding the communities out
there of folks who are doing this work and
willing to share their processes.
That will help you kinda level up too, so
you can really lead your team in this
example into a really good fit [LAUGH]